theory of mind is this general idea that
I can understand that my thoughts are
different than someone else's or in fact
everyone else's and that I have a a
sense of self that I recognize is
different than everyone else and one of
the easiest ways to demonstrate that is
being able to recognize yourself in a
mirror mirror self recognition is not an
ability humans are born with to
demonstrate this rob has gathered
together some very young volunteers and
secretly dorbz them this pot of paint
if they use the mirror to examine the
sport they'll demonstrate that they
understand that the image in the mirror
is themselves
we just don't expect mere self
recognition much before a year and a
half old or even two years old we did
test one child who was a little bit over
three years old and she instantly
recognized that the spot on her forehead
and that's exactly what you would expect
now that's something that a two-year-old
simply can't get so if young humans
can't do it how good are orangutans zatt
self recognition to find out Rob
installs a two-way mirror in the lab
meanwhile Rob's colleague Carol Schwartz
prepares a Z and his female friend
Kenobi
she's always interested in the mirror
she's always interested in activities so
I think she'll be quite good today
Kenobi is the first to take the test
[Music]
Kenobi passes with flying colors you
just have the cut but shy retiring AZ
has never bothered much with mirrors
before his reaction to the mirror may be
altogether more fleeting and subtle AZ
has never had a mark test to my
knowledge so he may or may not pass the
mark test we'll find out although AZ was
less flamboyant than Kenobi his reaction
is clear when we look at the responses
Kenobi's was extraordinarily easy to
interpret
Easy's was a bit more subtle but I think
still convincing AZ's capacity to
recognize himself as well as long-lost
friends
shows that orangutans are far more aware
than previously thought